Create rule S6380: add language AzureResourceManager (JSON) (#2274)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S6380/azureresourcemanager/rule.adoc

include::../description.adoc[]

include::../ask-yourself.adoc[]

include::../recommended.adoc[]

== Sensitive Code Example

For https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/app-service/[App Service]:

[source,json,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
{
    "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-04-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
    "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
    "resources": [
        {
            "type": "Microsoft.Web/sites",
            "apiVersion": "2021-02-01",

>             "name": "example"

Reviewer: The PoC has a `globalValidation` property. Should that be present here, or does the setting default to `false`?

```suggestion
            "name": "example",
            "properties": {
                "globalValidation": {
                    "requireAuthentication": false
                }
            },
```

Reviewer 2: It defaults to `false`, so no need to include it.

                    }
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
----

For https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/cache/[Redis Caches]:

[source,json,diff-id=6,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
{
    "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-04-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
    "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
    "resources": [
        {
            "type": "Microsoft.Cache/redis",
            "apiVersion": "2022-06-01",
            "name": "example",
            "properties": {
                "redisConfiguration": {
                    "authnotrequired": "true"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
----

== Compliant Solution

For https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/app-service/[App Services and equivalent]:

[source,json,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
{
    "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-04-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
    "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
    "resources": [
        {
            "type": "Microsoft.Web/sites",
            "apiVersion": "2021-02-01",
            "name": "example",
            "resources": [
                {
                    "type": "config",

>                     "apiVersion": "2022-03-01",

Reviewer: Nitpick: templates that Azure generates will typically use the same `apiVersion` for all resources.
```suggestion
                    "apiVersion": "2021-02-01",
```

Reviewer 2: Good point, though I'd rather push everything to the most recent version :D

                    "properties": {
                        "publicAccess": "None"
                    }
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
----

For https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/cache/[Redis Caches]:

[source,json,diff-id=6,diff-type=compliant]
----
{
    "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-04-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
    "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
    "resources": [
        {
            "type": "Microsoft.Cache/redis",
            "apiVersion": "2022-06-01",
            "name": "example",
            "properties": {
                "redisConfiguration": {}
            }
        }
    ]
}
----

include::../see.adoc[]

ifdef::env-github,rspecator-view[]

'''
== Implementation Specification
(visible only on this page)

=== Message

* For ``Microsoft.Web/sites``:
** If the resource is not found: Omitting ``authsettingsV2`` disables authentication. Make sure it is safe here.
** If ``properties.platform.enabled == false`` or ``properties.globalValidation.requireAuthentication == false``: Make sure that disabling authentication is safe here.

* For ``Microsoft.ApiManagement/service/portalsettings``:

> ** If ``properties.enabled == false``: Make sure that giving anonymous access without enforcing sign-in is safe here.

Reviewer: I think that part of the sentence here is redundant. Anonymous access implies that there's no sign-in being enforced.
```suggestion
** If ``properties.enabled == false``: Make sure that allowing anonymous access is safe here.
```

> ** If the resource is not found: Omitting ``sign_in`` authorizes anonymous access. Make sure it is safe here.

Reviewer: I think a slight wording change here sounds a bit better.
```suggestion
** If the resource is not found: Omitting ``sign_in`` allows anonymous access. Make sure it is safe here.
```

* For ``Microsoft.ApiManagement/service/apis`` (if ``authenticationSettings`` is not set): Omitting ``authenticationSettings`` disables authentication. Make sure it is safe here.

> * For ``Microsoft.DataFactory/factories/linkedservices``: Make sure that authorizing anonymous access is safe here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For ``Microsoft.DataFactory/factories/linkedservices``: Make sure that allowing anonymous access is safe here.
```

> * For ``Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts``: Make sure that authorizing potential anonymous access is safe here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For ``Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts``: Make sure that allowing anonymous access is safe here.
```

> * For ``Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/containers``: Make sure that authorizing potential anonymous access is safe here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For ``Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/containers``: Make sure that allowing anonymous access is safe here.
```
